The sampling motion, map estimation and
important weight techniques are the essence of the Grid-based FastSLAM algorithm.
Grid-based FastSLAM implements them to estimate
both the map and the robot trajectory giving the measurements and the control.
Here's the Grid-based FastSLAM algorithm which looks very similar to
the MCL algorithm with some additional statements concerning the map estimation.
In fact, this algorithm is the result of
combining the MCL algorithm and the occupancy grid mapping one.
As in the MCL algorithm,
the Grid-based FastSLAM algorithm is composed
of two sections represented by two full loops.
The first section includes the motion, sensor,
and not update steps,
and the second one includes the re-sampling process.
At each iteration, the algorithm takes the previous belief or pose,
the activation command, and the sensor measurements as input.
Initially, the hypothetical belief is obtained by randomly generating M particles.
Then, in the first section,
each particle implements the three techniques covered
earlier to estimate the k particles current pose,
likelihood of the measurement, and the map.
Each particle begins by implementing the sampling technique in
the sample motion model to estimate the current pose of the k particle.
Next, in the measurement update step,
each particle implements the important Suede technique in
the measurement model map function to estimate
the current likelihood of the k particle measurement.
Moving on to the map update step, here,
each particle will implement the map estimation technique into
updated occupancy grid map function to estimate the current k particle map.
This map estimation problem will be solved under the occupancy grid mapping algorithm.
Now, the newly estimated k particle pose map
and likelihood of the measurements are all added to the hypothetical belief.
Moving on to the second section of the algorithm,
re-sampling process happen through re-sampling wheel.
Here, particles with measurement values close to
the robot's measurement value survive and are redrawn in the next iteration,
while the others die.
The surviving particles poses end map are added to the system belief.
Finally, the algorithm outputs the new belief and
another cycle of iterations starts implementing the newly completed belief,
the next motion and the new sensor measurements.